---
layout: post
title: "Getting Engineering Teams to Embrace OKRs"
date: 2023-02-11 00:00:00
categories: [strategy]
---

OKRs, or Objectives and Key Results, are a commonly used strategy for engineering organizations to set and measure progress towards their goals. However, getting engineering teams to fully embrace OKRs and put them into practice can be a challenge, as objectives tend to be too conceptual and disconnected from the day-to-day work of the engineers. To overcome this, organizations need to adopt a bottom-up approach that emphasizes the importance of input and alignment with the team’s work.

### Tapping into Expertise

Senior engineers possess valuable expertise on what is needed to evolve the platform, keep the codebase maintainable, and sustain development velocity. By tapping into this expertise and asking the team what initiatives and projects they think are important for the product or platform to be successful, organizations can extract meaningful goals while creating buy-in and ownership among the team.

### Gathering Initiatives

To start, gather a list of initiatives, both big and small, that the team thinks are important. This can include upgrading dependencies, building new tools, and even some bold ideas. Then, prioritize and group the initiatives into common themes, taking into account their impact and cost. 

### Setting Objectives

By grouping initiatives into themes, the team can better see how they fit together and identify areas where multiple initiatives can be tackled in a coordinated manner. The themes can then be used as the basis for the objectives, and by describing a future where the problem that the initiatives are trying to solve is solved, the objectives become inspiring and motivating for the team.


### Involving the Team in Key Result Setting
It's important to involve the team in the key result setting process, as they know the work best and can provide valuable insights into what is attainable. Key results should be specific, measurable, and time-bound, and they should align with the objectives set by the organization.

### Regular Check-Ins and Transparency
Regular check-ins on progress can help the team stay on track and make adjustments as needed. Transparency, through regular communication and sharing of progress, can help build trust and increase accountability. It also helps to create a culture of continuous improvement.

### Conclusion
A bottom-up approach to OKRs in engineering organizations focuses on collaboration, engagement, and transparency. By involving the team in the process and setting goals that are relevant and achievable, organizations can improve their chances of success and drive results that truly matter.

